README.rst, before:

*************************
Molecule OpenStack Plugin
*************************

.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/molecule-openstack.svg
   :target: https://badge.fury.io/py/molecule-openstack
   :alt: PyPI Package

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg
   :target: https://github.com/python/black
   :alt: Python Black Code Style

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Code%20of%20Conduct-Ansible-silver.svg
   :target: https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/community/code_of_conduct.html
   :alt: Ansible Code of Conduct

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Mailing%20lists-Ansible-orange.svg
   :target: https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/community/communication.html#mailing-list-information
   :alt: Ansible mailing lists

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen.svg
   :target: LICENSE
   :alt: Repository License

Molecule OpenStack is designed to allow use of OpenStack Clouds for
provisioning test resources.

Please note that this driver is currently in its early stage of development.

.. _installation-and-usage:

Installation and Usage
======================

Install molecule-openstack and pre-requisites:

.. code-block::

   pip install molecule-openstack ansible openstacksdk

Create a new role with molecule using the openstack driver:

.. code-block::

   molecule init role <role_name> -d openstack

Configure ``<role_name>/molecule/default/molecule.yaml`` with required
parameters based on your openstack cloud. A simple config is:

.. code-block:: yaml

   dependency:
      name: galaxy
   driver:
      name: openstack
   platforms:
   - name: molecule-foo
      image: "ubuntu"
      flavor: "m1.medium"
      network: "private"
      fip_pool: "public"
      ssh_user: "ubuntu"
   provisioner:
      name: ansible
   verifier:
      name: ansible

Argument ``fip_pool`` in only required when network is not an external
network. Instead of configuring
``<role_name>/molecule/default/molecule.yaml`` the following environment
variables can be exported:

.. code-block::

   export MOLECULE_OPENSTACK_IMAGE=ubuntu
   export MOLECULE_OPENSTACK_FLAVOR=m1.medium
   export MOLECULE_OPENSTACK_NETWORK=private
   export MOLECULE_OPENSTACK_FIP_POOL=public
   export MOLECULE_OPENSTACK_SSH_USER=ubuntu

After this molecule can be run from the base-dir of the role:

.. code-block::

   source ~/.openrc
   molecule test



.. _get-involved:

Get Involved
============

* Join us in the ``#ansible-molecule`` channel on `Freenode`_.
* Join the discussion in `molecule-users Forum`_.
* Join the community working group by checking the `wiki`_.
* Want to know about releases, subscribe to `ansible-announce list`_.
* For the full list of Ansible email Lists, IRC channels see the
  `communication page`_.

.. _`Freenode`: https://freenode.net
.. _`molecule-users Forum`: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/molecule-users
.. _`wiki`: https://github.com/ansible/community/wiki/Molecule
.. _`ansible-announce list`: https://groups.google.com/group/ansible-announce
.. _`communication page`: https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/community/communication.html

.. _license:

License
=======

The `MIT`_ License.

.. _`MIT`: https://github.com/ansible/molecule/blob/master/LICENSE

The logo is licensed under the `Creative Commons NoDerivatives 4.0 License`_.

If you have some other use in mind, contact us.

.. _`Creative Commons NoDerivatives 4.0 License`: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/

Commit message:

Seperate tox env for functional tests (#25)
Seperate tox env for unit and functional tests.
Functional tests require access to openstack cluster
and are not part of ci yet.
Update docs with info on running functional tests locally

README.rst, after:

*************************
Molecule OpenStack Plugin
*************************

.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/molecule-openstack.svg
   :target: https://badge.fury.io/py/molecule-openstack
   :alt: PyPI Package

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg
   :target: https://github.com/python/black
   :alt: Python Black Code Style

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Code%20of%20Conduct-Ansible-silver.svg
   :target: https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/community/code_of_conduct.html
   :alt: Ansible Code of Conduct

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Mailing%20lists-Ansible-orange.svg
   :target: https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/community/communication.html#mailing-list-information
   :alt: Ansible mailing lists

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen.svg
   :target: LICENSE
   :alt: Repository License

Molecule OpenStack is designed to allow use of OpenStack Clouds for
provisioning test resources.

Please note that this driver is currently in its early stage of development.

.. _installation-and-usage:

Installation and Usage
======================

Install molecule-openstack and pre-requisites:

.. code-block::

   pip install molecule-openstack ansible openstacksdk

Create a new role with molecule using the openstack driver:

.. code-block::

   molecule init role <role_name> -d openstack

Configure ``<role_name>/molecule/default/molecule.yaml`` with required
parameters based on your openstack cloud. A simple config is:

.. code-block:: yaml

   dependency:
      name: galaxy
   driver:
      name: openstack
   platforms:
   - name: molecule-foo
      image: "ubuntu"
      flavor: "m1.medium"
      network: "private"
      fip_pool: "public"
      ssh_user: "ubuntu"
   provisioner:
      name: ansible
   verifier:
      name: ansible

Argument ``fip_pool`` in only required when network is not an external
network. Instead of configuring
``<role_name>/molecule/default/molecule.yaml`` the following environment
variables can be exported:

.. code-block::

   $ export MOLECULE_OPENSTACK_IMAGE=ubuntu
   $ export MOLECULE_OPENSTACK_FLAVOR=m1.medium
   $ export MOLECULE_OPENSTACK_NETWORK=private
   $ export MOLECULE_OPENSTACK_FIP_POOL=public
   $ export MOLECULE_OPENSTACK_SSH_USER=ubuntu

After this molecule can be run from the base-dir of the role:

.. code-block::

   source ~/.openrc
   molecule test


.. _functional-tests:

Functional Tests
================

Functional tests can be run with tox but require access to an openstack
cluster. They are not part of `ci` yet. To run them locally:

.. code-block::

   $ export MOLECULE_OPENSTACK_IMAGE=<image_name>
   $ export MOLECULE_OPENSTACK_FLAVOR=<flavor>
   $ export MOLECULE_OPENSTACK_NETWORK=<network>
   $ export MOLECULE_OPENSTACK_FIP_POOL=<fip_pool_if_required>
   $ export MOLECULE_OPENSTACK_SSH_USER=<ssh_user>

   $ source openstack_openrc.sh

   $ tox -e py36-functional   # or 37,38,39


.. _get-involved:

Get Involved
============

* Join us in the ``#ansible-molecule`` channel on `Freenode`_.
* Join the discussion in `molecule-users Forum`_.
* Join the community working group by checking the `wiki`_.
* Want to know about releases, subscribe to `ansible-announce list`_.
* For the full list of Ansible email Lists, IRC channels see the
  `communication page`_.

.. _`Freenode`: https://freenode.net
.. _`molecule-users Forum`: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/molecule-users
.. _`wiki`: https://github.com/ansible/community/wiki/Molecule
.. _`ansible-announce list`: https://groups.google.com/group/ansible-announce
.. _`communication page`: https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/community/communication.html

.. _license:

License
=======

The `MIT`_ License.

.. _`MIT`: https://github.com/ansible/molecule/blob/master/LICENSE

The logo is licensed under the `Creative Commons NoDerivatives 4.0 License`_.

If you have some other use in mind, contact us.

.. _`Creative Commons NoDerivatives 4.0 License`: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/
